---
layout: layouts/blog.njk
---

[← Home](/)

# My Experience in Contributing to an Open Source Project

During my first time contributing to a real open-source project, I embarked on a journey of learning various aspects, ranging from project setup to exploring new concepts in JavaScript and TypeScript.

## You can make a `new` instance of a function

A realization that came to light was the significant commonality between functions and classes. Ultimately, the computer compiles the class as a function.

The fact that surprised me the most, is that you can make a `new` instance of a function, passing its values for it to use.

What particularly caught my attention was the ability to create a new instance of a function by supplying values for it to utilize. In essence, the following two approaches yield equivalent results:

```js
class Person {
    constructor(name) {
        this.name = name;
    }
    greeting() {
        console.log(`Hi! My name is ${this.name}`);
    }
};

const John = new Person("John");
```

And doing this:

``` js
const Person = function(name) {
        const greeting = function() {
                console.log(`Hi! my name is ${name}`)
        }
        return {
                name: name,
                greeting: greeting
        }
};

const John = new Person("name")
```

## Type Declarations in TypeScript Using .d.ts Files

During my contribution, which involved migrating JavaScript files to TypeScript, I encountered a scenario where I needed to generate type declarations for a library's functions. To accomplish this, I created a `.d.ts` file.

These files exclusively contain type information for type checking and do not produce any `.js` output.

## Exclusion of node_modules Folders in Version Control

The `node_modules` folder, generated by npm or yarn, contains all locally installed packages defined in `packages.json`. Typically, this folder is designated to be ignored by version control systems. Consequently, if the inclusion of a .d.ts file is necessary for a file within node_modules, it must be placed in a directory unaffected by .gitignore, allowing the change to be committed.

## Conversion of Any Value to Boolean Primitive

By utilizing the `Boolean()` constructor, it is possible to convert any value to a boolean primitive. This proves particularly advantageous when a function necessitates a strictly boolean return value but returns a "truthy" or "falsy" value.

The conversion can be performed as follows:

``` js
Boolean("Your value");
```

Alternatively, the double NOT (!!) operator can achieve the same result:

``` js
!!"Your value"
```

## Indicating to React That a Prop Is Not Undefined

When passing a prop that may be undefined but is assured to possess a value, an exclamation symbol (`!`) can be appended to indicate this certainty:

``` js
const myFunction = function(myProp) {
    return (
        <div>
            <MyComponent neededProp={myProp!} />
        </div>
    );
};
```

## Conclusion

My participation in a single pull request proved to be an invaluable learning experience, ranging from comprehending and analyzing someone else's code to embracing new concepts within familiar programming languages.

In summary, I found that when the learning curve appears to be plain with individual projects, this is a great way to learn and practice new concepts.